Hello comrades:

Welcome to here, I’m James. How was your weekend everyone? Learning English yet? Today I am going to share some referrals about CV/resume as maybe many students graduated in next July, applying study abroad and other people needed to change jobs. I hope the following information will be of use.  
OK, let’s start the topic:  **building  and polishing a winning CV**. In today’s workshop, we’re going to be discussing a few best praxis and how you can create a winning resume, how you can showcase  your accomplishments in one page document to open up  countless doors throughout your life and really help you to discover your potential by creating a winning CV.  
What is the purpose of a resume? What is a CV for? Well, a resume is a one page document, the chronicles of your education, your experiences and your skills, and it’s fit to purpose. You have a CV for a specific opportunity that demonstrates your qualifications. It’s important to know that the average recruiter or human resources officer or even an administrators officer will spend just thirty seconds looking over your resume, CV. It’s very very important that you quickly stand out, and in today’s session we’re going to be discussing the ways in which you can ensure that your CV stands out of the bell.  

**What is really contained in a CV?**  
Let’s get started. So  what is really contained in a CV?  
* First of all, because people spend such little time looking over your CV, you should keep it just one page. That way the important aspects are sure to be seen. I’ve spoken with admission officers and career recruiters, they say that they’re unlikely to actually even look at the second page of the CV. So for now, as students and young professionals, we’d better keep it to one page. We then want to have specific categories on the resume, Most every resume should follow this at this stage of our career. You start off with your name in the bold of the top of the sheet, then some basic content information, this include your telephone number, your email and perhaps a physical address. If it is possible, you will be mailed something. 
* After that, generally you’ll have your education. Which universities you have attended? If you are a high school student, your high school would go there. Perhaps relevant coursework that you’ve taken, perhaps grades you have received or percentile raking for these things, perhaps your test scores, and even specific honors or achievements in your school. If you’ve made the honorable or the Dean’s list or a specific grade point average, you should include this on the CV. You also have some experiences, this might be the employment you’ve had, leadership, research or specific skills. These shall be listed under your experiences, these are the things that demonstrate that you’re proactive, that you’ve taken an initiative, and you can succeed in a professional environment. Well, that’s your extracurricular activity, your internship or laboratory experiences. These all demonstrate various positive virtues, so that’s why your experience, as your own category, you can showcase a lot there in. 
* Finally if you have computer skills, language skills or other relevant features to display, they should be in their own category at the bottom of the resume.

**Clear categories, smart styling.**  
Let’s talk quickly now about various categories, let’s talk about styling. The styling of a resume is actually very very important. Certain words really jump off the page, why is that? Why does certain things jump off? For a couple of reasons. 
* You should  have very smartly delaminated categories, education and honors,  various employment and research experiences to highlight. And then your leadership activities and then skills. Because each of these are broken up by big bars here as well as bolded, it’s very easy for a prospective employer or admissions officer to get quickly what you are all about, where your experiences are strongest? And how well-thinking he might be for the opportunity? That is very very strong. 
* You also use bolding and italics in a smart way, As you can see here from the sheet various employer names, universities and organizations are bold, and your role is italicized. You follow the basic theme throughout. Being consistent in this use means very quickly you can see where you’ve worked and your basic responsibility, which is very very strong. 
* You also want to include the location and dates. Here you can see when you worked in a certain place and where you worked. This helps to provide context to individuals, and it’s very very helpful to include the location and the active dates on your resume. 
* You can also include plenty of white space to make things really stand out, you have done a lot of stuff in your life, but there’s also good enough white space, here’s plenty of space on the margins, even in between various experiences, so that way the experiences really jump out of you. I’ve seen resumes and I’ve in fact been guilty of myself, of having near spacing just tons and tons of everything done, but that is the way to take away your quality because it hides your best experiences. Remember if you only have thirty seconds, you really need to jump out and this style tips can be very very helpful in the end. So use bolding, use italicizes including plenty of spacing and includes the dates and locations as well, so people can have a plenty of context. 

**What else is really important?**  
So what else is really important? What’s the real meat of resume? There are a couple of things that we should discuss. 
* The first is to use actionable words when describing the work you have done, such as: launched, led, managed, researched, developed. These are words that demonstrate what your real responsibility was end even more importantly demonstrates your contribution. What impact did you have? When you use actionable verbs, it really demonstrates you’ve had a real impact in the space. 
* I also encourage you to use numbers whenever possible to quantify your impact. How much money were you able to raise? How many mentors were you able to recruit for a cause? How many hours did you spend on this? By quantifying, you’re really be able to demonstrate you went on and beyond and showcase what exactly you were able to accomplish. So use numbers when possible. That will make it very very strong. 
* Includes specifically your skills, especially as relevant to the position that you are recruiting for or for a university. If you’re applying for a computer science program, make sure that you include all of the programming languages you know and any design software or quantity of programs. Use that experiencing, that demonstrate to people you can really succeed at the next level. If you know languages, if you’re fluent or semi-fluent, or even just had an entry level, showing that through your resume. It’s also very very powerful.

**How you can get started crafting your resume?**  
We’ve now discussed numerous ways you can create a compelling resume. Let’s talk briefly about how you can get started crafting your resume because not everyone yet has the experiences they’re really excited to showcase. I have three basic tips. 
* No.1 is to set big goals and to reverse engineer your target resume. Maybe for you want to go into finance, and to get into the finance, it helps to have demonstrated an interest. Maybe that means working with a professor and learning and learning more about finance taking an economics class, maybe it means volunteering to do any internship for free for one of your family friends or to go out for a project that your school will give you to use financial information and knowledge. As you brainstorm, you can then set big goals, and work from today where you are now to begin building that dream CV. And it helps you to have more clarity and continues to bring strong direction that you aim to go. 
* Secondly, get involved. The more involved you are, the more things you can really highlight on your resume. The more experiences that you accumulate in your time, which will make you very very valuable to employers and to universities. Because each of these folks wants smart, talented and hardworking people. You can demonstrate that, it’s simply showing up. By getting involved, you’ve taken the first steps to building up that great resume. 
* Third, really really focus on your impact. What are you contributing to an organization, to an internship, to research? Focus on your personal contribution and you will become a much better team member as well. That way you are always seeking an impact, you’re always looking to improve the overall project in an organization and that will make yourself even stronger as a team player, and later on as you approach the employment world and university admissions, your resume is likely to be the one that others take the thirty seconds to look over, they’re excited to learn more about you, you did it through an interview or by giving you an offer to joining the university.

We’ve covered a lot of gram today as we discussed the resume, CV. It’s a big big topic, but I think today we’ve covered some of the key points. It’s really really  important to remember the objective that you’re applying for to tailor your CV. In that direction including clear categories, smart styling, with a big focus on your contribution. You can also begin building your CV today by setting big goals and reverse engineering to meet these goals, and also getting involved and focusing on your contribution. Each of these tips intact today can help you to build up the right resume to open all sort of doors as you approach the professional world and university admissions.

Ok, for reason of space I have missed out some of details. Again, Good luck with you. If you guys have any concerns, please kindly let me know. Thank you for your reading. Have a nice week.

Best Regards,  
-James
